feat(mobile): monitor ANR errors for Android apps (#17641)
newrelic/docs-website: src/content/docs/mobile-monitoring/mobile-monitoring-ui/application-not-responding.mdx

<img
    title="top occurences chart"
    alt="screenshot of top occurences chart"
    src={mobileGroupBy}
/>

To change how ANRs are grouped (such as device type, app version, or a [custom attribute](/docs/data-apis/custom-data/custom-events/collect-custom-attributes/)), click the <DoNotTranslate>**Group by**</DoNotTranslate> and select an attribute from the list. The ANR page will update to show data for the new ANR group.

### Monitor the ANR rate [#anr-rate-chart]

The <DoNotTranslate>**ANR rate**</DoNotTranslate> chart to see at a glance if there are any unexpected spikes, dips or patterns with ANRs in general. 

For example, if you released a recent app version, the ANR rate chart shows the percentage of sessions that experienced errors over time as a percentage of all sessions, broken out by app version. The average ANR session percent is shown in the upper right.

<img
    title="anr rate chart"
    alt="screenshot of anr rate chart"
    src={mobileAnrRateChart}
/>

The <DoNotTranslate>**ANR rate by day**</DoNotTranslate> chart shows the percentage of unique users that experienced an ANR over time as a percentage of all unique users.

> Note: Irrespective of the time period selected, this chart would show the average ANR rate for the last 28 days.

Author: ```suggestion
Note: Regardless of the time selected, this chart will show the average ANR rate for the last 28 days.
```

---
title: 'Application not responding: Track and analyze ANR errors'
tags:
  - Mobile monitoring
  - Mobile monitoring UI
  - Application not responding
  - Errors
metaDescription: Use New Relic's Application Not Monitoring UI page to track and analyze ANR errors. 
freshnessValidatedDate: 2024-06-24
---

> In Android mobile apps, [Application Not Responding (ANR) errors](https://developer.android.com/topic/performance/vitals/anr) are triggered when the main UI thread of an application is blocked for more than five seconds.

Author: @silpau-pm hello

## How ANR errors are reported in New Relic [#anr-reporting]

> Our Android agent reports ANR errors as []`MobileApplicationExit`](linktodatadictionary) events, which leverage Android’s [ApplicationExitInfo API](https://developer.android.com/reference/android/app/ApplicationExitInfo) to monitor and report on the different causes for app termination. The agent reads the `ApplicationExitInfo` API on the next app launch and asynchronously sends `MobileApplicationExit` events to New Relic for each app exit in the history.

Author: ```suggestion
Our Android agent reports ANR errors as [`MobileApplicationExit`](linktodatadictionary) events, which leverage Android’s [ApplicationExitInfo API](https://developer.android.com/reference/android/app/ApplicationExitInfo) to monitor and report on the different causes for app termination. The agent reads the `ApplicationExitInfo` API on the next app launch and asynchronously sends `MobileApplicationExit` events to New Relic for each app exit in the history.
```

### Understanding ANR discrepancies between New Relic and Google Play Console [#new-relic-vs-google-play]

You might encounter variations in ANR counts and rates between New Relic and Google Play Console. This is due to fundamental differences in the data collection methods:

* Android version coverage:
    * New Relic focuses on ANRs from devices running Android 11 or higher.
    * Google Play Console captures ANRs across all Android versions.

> * Device and app scope:

Author: @silpau-pm Hi!

>     * New Relic reports from devices with the New Relic agent installed, regardless of app source.
>     * Google Play Console reports exclusively from certified devices with apps downloaded through the Play Store.
> 
> For more information, see the [Google Play documentation](https://developer.android.com/topic/performance/vitals).

Author: ```suggestion
    * New Relic report from devices with the New Relic agent installed, regardless of app source.
    * Google Play Console reports exclusively from certified devices with apps downloaded through the Play Store.

For more information, see the [Google Play documentation](https://developer.android.com/topic/performance/vitals).
```

## View ANRs in New Relic [#view-anr-in-new-relic]

By default, our Android agent collects and reports ANR errors to New Relic. You can find ANR data in two places:

>     * On the Summary page, there's a widget called <DoNotTranslate>**ANR rate**</DoNotTranslate> displaying the percentage of errors.

Author: Give more info on what the actual widget displays
